content/posts/40-wealth-education/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Quest for Wealth - Value Investor Education
date: 2020-10-01
description: This page contains information on Value investing advices and experiences shared by some successful investors all over the world
tags:
  - stocks
  - wealth
  - notes
slug: "/40-wealth-education"
---

Below notes are taken while listening to youtube videos. 
* 2021-03-28 : [Learnings from Ray Dalio](../89-ray-dalio)
* 2021-01-26 : [Learnings from Peter Lynch](../80-qfw-peter-lynch)
* 2021-01-26 : [Learnings from Mohnish Pabrai](../79-qfw-mohnish-pabrai)
* 2021-01-14 : [The Simple Path to Wealth, Talks at Google, JL Collins](../76-qfw-jl-collins)
* 2020-12-31 : [The great minds of investing, Google talks, William Green](../71-qfw-william-green)
* 2020-12-23 : [The Value of Stories in Business, Talks at Google, Aswath Damodaran](../70-qfw-aswath-damodaran)
* 2020-10-14 : [The Most Important Thing - Origins and Inspirations, Talks at Google, Howard Marks](../69-qfw-howard-marks)
* 2020-10-06 : [The Education of a Value Investor, Talks at Google, Guy Spier](../68-qfw-guy-spier)
* 2020-10-05 : [Investments and Portfolio Management Tactics, Brian Yacktman](../67-qfw-brian-yacktman)
* 2020-10-05 : [The Art of Investing, Talks at Google, François Rochon](../66-qfw-francois-rochon)
* 2020-10-03 : [The little book that beats the market, Talks at google, Joel Greenblatt](../65-qfw-joel-greenblatt)
* 2020-10-03 : [Investing the Templeton way, Talks at google, Lauren Templeton](../64-qfw-lauren-templeton)
* 2020-09-30 : [Viewing stocks as bonds, Talks at Google, Donald Yacktman](../63-qfw-donald-yacktman)
* 2020-09-30 : [Warren Buffett](../61-qfw-warren-buffett)
* 2020-09-30 : [Charlie Munger](../60-qfw-charlie-munger)
* 2020-09-29 : [Wealth building with one thing & millionaire series, Google talks, Jay Papasan](../62-qfw-jay-papasan)
* 2020-07-01 : [Wealth Is What You Don’t Spend, Morgan Housel](../59-qfw-morgan-housel)

* * *

#### Points to remember

##### Said by Kevin O'Leary

* Don't lie, it destroys your equity
* Write down three things todo next day a night before in a sticky note and get it done next day.
* Don't give your kids entitlement, it's like cursing them
* Beanstalk app - There are reasons why Financial Companies won't bother people who can save only $400 a Month this app is for them. 
  + Save $100 dollars a week invest in etfs which will be used for your retirement. 
* An Entrepreneur should be able to 
  + Articulate your idea in 90secs or less
  + Have to explain why you are the right person to execute that idea
  + Know numbers gross margin, marker share, breakeven analysis, how many competitors and how fast you can grow

##### Said by David Ramsay

* When you are highly emotional your critical thinking shuts out. 

##### Said by Robert Kiyosaki

* Knowledge is finite, stupidty is infinite, so stay stupid. Keep learning…
* Be careful who your teachers are
* Don't hide behind diploma
* Before investing ask people for their financials
* More debt you have less tax you pay
 

##### Said by Tilman Fertitta in a interview with Lewis Howes

* In any business deals you can't get caught up emotionally and remember as there's always another deal. So good business men walk away from deals all the time. 

* At certain times, things can be overpriced at that time you got to know, what's in the box and what's out of the box. Is it something you going regret later or is it something if you wait or you can get it somewhere else as well.

##### Said by Jack boogle

* Idea of buying and holding forever is that you have gotten it right first place. You can hold tight if you only bought right.

##### Said by Li Lu

* Common sense is the least common commodity
* Successful imvesting lies in the successful guessing on stock movement based on whatever theories and practices that works for you.

Commit message:

May 2021 : Update 1 : Added content peter thiel, naval ravikant, Buffett Books(2)

content/posts/40-wealth-education/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Quest for Wealth - Value Investor Education
date: 2020-10-01
description: This page contains information on Value investing advices and experiences shared by some successful investors all over the world
tags:
  - stocks
  - quest-for-wealth
  - nfwyt
slug: "/40-wealth-education"
---

> "You’re looking for a mispriced gamble. That’s what investing is. And you have to know, enough to know, whether the gamble is mispriced. That’s value investing."    
> -- Charlie Munger    

Below notes are taken while watching youtube videos. 

* 2021-05-01 : [Buffett's Management Secrets - Proven tools for personal and business success](../94-qfw-wb-management-secrets)

* 2021-04-14 : [Peter Thiel views](../91-peter-thiel-views)
* 2021-03-28 : [Learnings from Ray Dalio](../89-ray-dalio)
* 2021-01-26 : [Learnings from Peter Lynch](../80-qfw-peter-lynch)
* 2021-01-26 : [Learnings from Mohnish Pabrai](../79-qfw-mohnish-pabrai)
* 2021-01-14 : [The Simple Path to Wealth, Talks at Google, JL Collins](../76-qfw-jl-collins)
* 2020-12-31 : [The great minds of investing, Google talks, William Green](../71-qfw-william-green)
* 2020-12-23 : [The Value of Stories in Business, Talks at Google, Aswath Damodaran](../70-qfw-aswath-damodaran)
* 2020-10-14 : [The Most Important Thing - Origins and Inspirations, Talks at Google, Howard Marks](../69-qfw-howard-marks)
* 2020-10-06 : [The Education of a Value Investor, Talks at Google, Guy Spier](../68-qfw-guy-spier)
* 2020-10-05 : [Investments and Portfolio Management Tactics, Brian Yacktman](../67-qfw-brian-yacktman)
* 2020-10-05 : [The Art of Investing, Talks at Google, François Rochon](../66-qfw-francois-rochon)
* 2020-10-03 : [The little book that beats the market, Talks at google, Joel Greenblatt](../65-qfw-joel-greenblatt)
* 2020-10-03 : [Investing the Templeton way, Talks at google, Lauren Templeton](../64-qfw-lauren-templeton)
* 2020-09-30 : [Viewing stocks as bonds, Talks at Google, Donald Yacktman](../63-qfw-donald-yacktman)
* 2020-09-30 : [Warren Buffett](../61-qfw-warren-buffett)
* 2020-09-30 : [Charlie Munger](../60-qfw-charlie-munger)
* 2020-09-29 : [Wealth building with one thing & millionaire series, Google talks, Jay Papasan](../62-qfw-jay-papasan)
* 2020-07-01 : [Wealth Is What You Don’t Spend, Morgan Housel](../59-qfw-morgan-housel)

* * *

#### Points to remember

##### Said by Kevin O'Leary

* Don't lie, it destroys your equity
* Write down three things todo next day a night before in a sticky note and get it done next day.
* Don't give your kids entitlement, it's like cursing them
* Beanstalk app - There are reasons why Financial Companies won't bother people who can save only $400 a Month this app is for them. 
  + Save $100 dollars a week invest in etfs which will be used for your retirement. 
* An Entrepreneur should be able to 
  + Articulate your idea in 90secs or less
  + Have to explain why you are the right person to execute that idea
  + Know numbers gross margin, marker share, breakeven analysis, how many competitors and how fast you can grow

##### Said by David Ramsay

* When you are highly emotional your critical thinking shuts out. 

##### Said by Robert Kiyosaki

* Knowledge is finite, stupidty is infinite, so stay stupid. Keep learning…
* Be careful who your teachers are
* Don't hide behind diploma
* Before investing ask people for their financials
* More debt you have less tax you pay
 

##### Said by Tilman Fertitta in a interview with Lewis Howes

* In any business deals you can't get caught up emotionally and remember as there's always another deal. So good business men walk away from deals all the time. 

* At certain times, things can be overpriced at that time you got to know, what's in the box and what's out of the box. Is it something you going regret later or is it something if you wait or you can get it somewhere else as well.

##### Said by Jack boogle

* Idea of buying and holding forever is that you have gotten it right first place. You can hold tight if you only bought right.

##### Said by Li Lu

* Common sense is the least common commodity
* Successful imvesting lies in the successful guessing on stock movement based on whatever theories and practices that works for you.
